<div class="chapter" id="chapter.Android"
     xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

    <div class="title">Cling on Android</div>
    <div class="content">

        <p>
            Cling Core provides a UPnP stack for Android applications. Typically you'd write control point
            applications, as most Android systems today are small hand-held devices. You can however also
            write UPnP server applications on Android, all features of Cling Core are supported.
        </p>

        <div class="note">
            <div class="title">Cling on the Android emulator</div>
            At the time of writing, receiving UDP Multicast datagrams was not supported by the Android
            emulator. The emulator will send (multicast) UDP datagrams, however. You will be able
            to send a multicast UPnP search and receive UDP unicast responses, therefore discover
            existing running devices. You will not discover devices which have been turned on
            after your search, and you will not receive any message when a device is switched off.
            Other control points on your network will not discover your local Android
            device/services at all. All of this can be confusing when testing your application, so
            unless you really understand what works and what doesn't, you might want to use a
            real device instead.
        </div>

        <p>
            This chapter explains how you can integrate Cling with your Android application as a
            shared Android application service component.
        </p>

        <div class="section" id="section.Android.ConfiguringService">
            <div class="title">Configuring the application service</div>
            <div class="content">

                <p>
                    You can instantiate the Cling <code>UpnpService</code> in your Android application's
                    main activity. On the other hand, if several activities in your application require
                    access to the UPnP stack, a better design would utilize a background
                    <code>android.app.Service</code>. Any activity that wants to access the UPnP stack
                    can then bind and unbind from this service as needed.
                </p>

                <p>
                    The interface of this service component is <code>org.fourthline.cling.android.AndroidUpnpService</code>:
                </p>

        <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[public interface AndroidUpnpService {
    public UpnpService get();
    public UpnpServiceConfiguration getConfiguration();
    public Registry getRegistry();
    public ControlPoint getControlPoint();
}]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    An activity typically accesses the <code>Registry</code> of known
                    UPnP devices or searches for and controls UPnP devices with the
                    <code>ControlPoint</code>.
                </p>

                <p>
                    You have to configure the built-in implementation of this service component in your
                    <code>AndroidManifest.xml</code>:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[
<manifest ...>

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE"/>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CHANGE_WIFI_MULTICAST_STATE"/>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE"/>

    <application ...>

        <activity ...>
            ...
        </activity>

        <service android:name="org.fourthline.cling.android.AndroidUpnpServiceImpl"/>

    </application>

</manifest>]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    The Cling UPnP service requires access to the WiFi interface on the device,
                    this is in fact the only network interface on which it will bind. The service
                    will automatically detect when the WiFi interface is switched off and handle
                    this situation gracefully: Any client operation will result in a "no response
                    from server" state, which your code has to expect anyway.
                </p>

                <p>
                    The service component starts and stops the UPnP system when the service component
                    is created and destroyed. This depends on how you access the service component
                    from within your activities.
                </p>

            </div>
        </div>

        <div class="section" id="section.Android.BindService">
            <div class="title">Accessing the service from an activity</div>
            <div class="content">

                <p>
                    The lifecycle of services in Android is well defined. The first activity which
                    binds to a service will start the service if it is not already running. When no
                    activity is bound to the service any more, the operating system will destroy the
                    service.
                </p>

                <p>
                    Let's write a simple UPnP browsing activity. It shows all devices on your network
                    in a list and it has a menu option which triggers a search action. The activity
                    connects to the UPnP service and then listens to any device additions or removals
                    in the registry, so the displayed list of devices is kept up-to-date.
                </p>

                <p>
                    This is the skeleton of the activity class:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[import android.app.ListActivity;
import android.content.ComponentName;
import android.content.Context;
import android.content.Intent;
import android.content.ServiceConnection;
import android.os.Bundle;
import android.os.IBinder;
import android.view.Menu;
import android.view.MenuItem;
import android.widget.ArrayAdapter;
import android.widget.Toast;
import org.fourthline.cling.android.AndroidUpnpService;
import org.fourthline.cling.android.AndroidUpnpServiceImpl;
import org.fourthline.cling.model.meta.Device;
import org.fourthline.cling.model.meta.LocalDevice;
import org.fourthline.cling.model.meta.RemoteDevice;
import org.fourthline.cling.registry.DefaultRegistryListener;
import org.fourthline.cling.registry.Registry;

public class UpnpBrowser extends ListActivity {

    private ArrayAdapter<DeviceDisplay> listAdapter;

    private AndroidUpnpService upnpService;

    private ServiceConnection serviceConnection = ...

    private RegistryListener registryListener = new BrowseRegistryListener();

    @Override
    public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);

        listAdapter =
            new ArrayAdapter(
                this,
                android.R.layout.simple_list_item_1
            );
        setListAdapter(listAdapter);

        getApplicationContext().bindService(
            new Intent(this, AndroidUpnpServiceImpl.class),
            serviceConnection,
            Context.BIND_AUTO_CREATE
        );
    }

    @Override
    protected void onDestroy() {
        super.onDestroy();
        if (upnpService != null) {
            upnpService.getRegistry().removeListener(registryListener);
        }
        getApplicationContext().unbindService(serviceConnection);
    }

    ...

}]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    We utilize the default layout provided by the Android runtime and the <code>ListActivity</code>
                    superclass. Note that this activity can be your applications main activity, or further up
                    in the stack of a task. The <code>listAdapter</code> is the glue between the device additions
                    and removals on the Cling <code>Registry</code> and the list of items shown in the user interface.
                </p>

                <p>
                    The <code>upnpService</code> variable is <code>null</code> when no backend service
                    is bound to this activity. Binding and unbinding occurs in the <code>onCreate()</code>
                    and <code>onDestroy()</code> callbacks, so the activity is bound to the service as
                    long as it is alive.
                </p>

                <div class="note">
                    <div class="title">Pausing the UPnP service in the background</div>
                    When an activity is no longer active (in stopped or paused state) it will still be
                    bound to the UPnP service. The UPnP service will continue running, even if
                    your application is not visible anymore. This will consume CPU time and power on
                    your device, as the UPnP service's registry has to periodically maintain discovered
                    devices, refresh announcements of local devices, remove expired GENA event
                    subscriptions, and so on. You can tell the UPnP service to no longer maintain its registry
                    by calling <code>Registry#pause()</code> when your activity's <code>onPause()</code> or
                    <code>onStop()</code> method is called. You can then resume the background service
                    maintenance with <code>Registry#resume()</code>, or check the status with
                    <code>Registry#isPaused()</code>. Please read the Javadoc of these methods for more
                    details and what consequences pausing registry maintenance has on devices, services,
                    and GENA subscriptions.
                </div>

                <p>
                    Binding and unbinding the service is handled with this <code>ServiceConnection</code>:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[private ServiceConnection serviceConnection = new ServiceConnection() {

    public void onServiceConnected(ComponentName className, IBinder service) {
        upnpService = (AndroidUpnpService) service;

        // Refresh the list with all known devices
        listAdapter.clear();
        for (Device device : upnpService.getRegistry().getDevices()) {
            registryListener.deviceAdded(device);
        }

        // Getting ready for future device advertisements
        upnpService.getRegistry().addListener(registryListener);

        // Search asynchronously for all devices
        upnpService.getControlPoint().search();
    }

    public void onServiceDisconnected(ComponentName className) {
        upnpService = null;
    }
};]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    First, all UPnP devices that are already known can be queried and displayed (there
                    might be none if the UPnP service was just started and no device has so far
                    announced its presence.)
                </p>
                <p>
                    Next a listener is registered with the <code>Registry</code> of the UPnP service.
                    This listener will process additions and removals of devices as they are
                    discovered on your network, and update the items shown in the user interface list.
                    The <code>BrowseRegistryListener</code> is removed when the activity is destroyed.
                </p>

                <p>
                    Finally, you start asynchronous discovery by sending a search message to all
                    UPnP devices, so they will announce themselves. Note that this search message is
                    NOT required every time you connect to the service. It is only necessary once,
                    to populate the registry with all known devices when your (main) activity and
                    application starts.
                </p>

                <p>
                    This is the <code>BrowseRegistryListener</code>, its only job is to update the
                    displayed list items:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[class BrowseRegistryListener extends DefaultRegistryListener {

    @Override
    public void remoteDeviceDiscoveryStarted(Registry registry, RemoteDevice device) {
        deviceAdded(device);
    }

    @Override
    public void remoteDeviceDiscoveryFailed(Registry registry, final RemoteDevice device, final Exception ex) {
        runOnUiThread(new Runnable() {
            public void run() {
                Toast.makeText(
                        BrowseActivity.this,
                        "Discovery failed of '" + device.getDisplayString() + "': " +
                                (ex != null ? ex.toString() : "Couldn't retrieve device/service descriptors"),
                        Toast.LENGTH_LONG
                ).show();
            }
        });
        deviceRemoved(device);
    }

    @Override
    public void remoteDeviceAdded(Registry registry, RemoteDevice device) {
        deviceAdded(device);
    }

    @Override
    public void remoteDeviceRemoved(Registry registry, RemoteDevice device) {
        deviceRemoved(device);
    }

    @Override
    public void localDeviceAdded(Registry registry, LocalDevice device) {
        deviceAdded(device);
    }

    @Override
    public void localDeviceRemoved(Registry registry, LocalDevice device) {
        deviceRemoved(device);
    }

    public void deviceAdded(final Device device) {
        runOnUiThread(new Runnable() {
            public void run() {
                DeviceDisplay d = new DeviceDisplay(device);
                int position = listAdapter.getPosition(d);
                if (position >= 0) {
                    // Device already in the list, re-set new value at same position
                    listAdapter.remove(d);
                    listAdapter.insert(d, position);
                } else {
                    listAdapter.add(d);
                }
            }
        });
    }

    public void deviceRemoved(final Device device) {
        runOnUiThread(new Runnable() {
            public void run() {
                listAdapter.remove(new DeviceDisplay(device));
            }
        });
    }
}]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    For performance reasons, when a new device has been discovered, we don't wait until a fully
                    hydrated (all services retrieved and validated) device metadata model is available.
                    We react as quickly as possible and don't wait until the <code>remoteDeviceAdded()</code> method
                    will be called. We display any device even while discovery is still running. You'd usually
                    not care about this on a desktop computer, however, Android handheld devices are slow and
                    UPnP uses several bloated XML descriptors to exchange metadata about devices and services.
                    Sometimes it can take several seconds before a device and  its services are fully available.
                    The <code>remoteDeviceDiscoveryStarted()</code> and <code>remoteDeviceDiscoveryFailed()</code>
                    methods are called as soon as possible in the discovery process. By the way, devices are
                    equal (<code>a.equals(b)</code>) if they have the same UDN, they might not be
                    identical (<code>a==b</code>).
                </p>

                <p>
                    Note that the <code>Registry</code> will call the listener methods in a separate thread. You
                    have to update the displayed list data in the thread of the user interface.
                </p>

                <p>
                    The following two methods on the activity add a menu with a search action, so a user can
                    refresh the list manually:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[@Override
public boolean onCreateOptionsMenu(Menu menu) {
    menu.add(0, 0, 0, R.string.search_lan)
        .setIcon(android.R.drawable.ic_menu_search);
    return true;
}

@Override
public boolean onOptionsItemSelected(MenuItem item) {
    if (item.getItemId() == 0 && upnpService != null) {
        upnpService.getRegistry().removeAllRemoteDevices();
        upnpService.getControlPoint().search();
    }
    return false;
}]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    Finally, the <code>DeviceDisplay</code> class is a very simple JavaBean that only
                    provides a <code>toString()</code> method for rendering the list. You can display
                    any information about UPnP devices by changing this method:
                </p>

                <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[class DeviceDisplay {
    Device device;

    public DeviceDisplay(Device device) {
        this.device = device;
    }

    public Device getDevice() {
        return device;
    }

    @Override
    public boolean equals(Object o) {
        if (this == o) return true;
        if (o == null || getClass() != o.getClass()) return false;
        DeviceDisplay that = (DeviceDisplay) o;
        return device.equals(that.device);
    }

    @Override
    public int hashCode() {
        return device.hashCode();
    }

    @Override
    public String toString() {
        // Display a little star while the device is being loaded
        return device.isFullyHydrated() ? device.getDisplayString() : device.getDisplayString() + " *";
    }
}]]></pre></div>

                <p>
                    We have to override the equality operations as well, so we can remove and add
                    devices from the list manually with the <code>DeviceDisplay</code> instance as
                    a convenient handle.
                </p>
            </div>
        </div>

        <div class="section" id="section.Android.Optimize">
            <div class="title">Optimizing service behavior</div>
            <div class="content">

                <p>
                    The UPnP service consumes memory and CPU time while it is running. Although
                    this is typically not an issue on a regular machine, this might be a problem
                    on an Android handset. You can preserve memory and handset battery power if
                    you disable certain features of the Cling UPnP service, or if you even pause
                    and resume it when appropriate.
                </p>

                <p>
                    Furthermore, some Android handsets do not support multicast networking
                    (HTC phones, for example), so you have to configure Cling accordingly on such
                    a device and disable most of the UPnP discovery protocol.
                </p>

                <div class="section" id="section.Android.Optimize.MaintainRegistry">
                    <div class="title">Tuning registry maintenance</div>
                    <div class="content">

                        <p>
                            There are several things going on in the background while the service is running.
                            First, there is the registry of the service and its maintenance thread. If you
                            are writing a control point, this background registry maintainer is going to
                            renew your outbound GENA subscriptions with remote services periodically. It
                            will also expire and remove any discovered remote devices when the drop off the
                            network without saying goodbye. If you are providing a service, your device
                            announcements will be refreshed by the registry maintainer and inbound GENA
                            subscriptions will be removed if they haven't been renewed in time. Effectively,
                            the registry maintainer prevents stale state on the UPnP network, so all
                            participants have an up-to-date view of all other participants, and so on.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            By default the registry maintainer will run every second and check if there is
                            something to do (most of the time there is nothing to do, of course). The default
                            Android configuration however has a default sleep interval of five seconds, so
                            it is already consuming less background CPU time - while your application might
                            be exposed to somewhat outdated information. You can further tune this setting
                            by overriding the <code>getRegistryMaintenanceIntervalMillis()</code> in the
                            <code>UpnpServiceConfiguration</code>. On Android, you have to subclass the
                            service implementation to provide a new configuration:
                        </p>

                        <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[public class MyUpnpService extends AndroidUpnpServiceImpl {

    @Override
    protected AndroidUpnpServiceConfiguration createConfiguration(WifiManager wifiManager) {
        return new AndroidUpnpServiceConfiguration(wifiManager) {

            @Override
            public int getRegistryMaintenanceIntervalMillis() {
                return 7000;
            }

        };
    }
}]]></pre></div>

                        <p>
                            Don't forget to configure <code>MyUpnpService</code> in your
                            <code>AndroidManifest.xml</code> now instead of the original implementation.
                            You also have to use this type when binding to the service in your activities.
                        </p>
                    </div>

                </div>

                <div class="section" id="section.Android.Optimize.PauseRegistry">
                    <div class="title">Pausing and resuming registry maintenance</div>
                    <div class="content">

                        <p>
                            Another more effective but also more complex optimization is pausing
                            and resuming the registry whenever your activities no longer need the UPnP
                            service. This is typically the case when an activity is no longer in the
                            foreground (paused) or even no longer visible (stopped). By default any
                            activity state change has no impact on the state of the UPnP service
                            unless you bind and unbind from and to the service in your activities
                            lifecycle callbacks.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            In addition to binding and unbinding from the service you can also pause
                            its registry by calling <code>Registry#pause()</code> when your activity's
                            <code>onPause()</code> or <code>onStop()</code> method is called. You can then
                            resume the background service maintenance (thread) with <code>Registry#resume()</code>,
                            or check the status with <code>Registry#isPaused()</code>.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            Please read the Javadoc of these methods for more details and what consequences
                            pausing registry maintenance has on devices, services, and GENA subscriptions.
                            Depending on what your application does, this rather minor optimization might
                            not be worth dealing with these effects. On the other hand, your application
                            should already be able to handle failed GENA subscription renewals, or
                            disappearing remote devices!
                        </p>

                    </div>

                </div>

                <div class="section" id="section.Android.Optimize.Discovery">
                    <div class="title">Configuring discovery</div>
                    <div class="content">

                        <p>
                            The most effective optimization is selective discovery of UPnP devices. Although
                            the UPnP service's network transport layer will keep running (threads are waiting
                            and sockets are bound) in the background, this feature allows you to drop
                            discovery messages selectively and quickly.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            For example, if you are writing a control point, you can drop any received discovery
                            message if it doesn't advertise the service you want to control - you are not
                            interested in any other device. On the other hand if you only <em>provide</em>
                            devices and services, all discovery messages (except search messages for your
                            services) can probably be dropped, you are not interested in any remote devices
                            and their services at all.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            Discovery messages are selected and potentially dropped by Cling as soon as the
                            UDP datagram content is available, so no further parsing and processing is needed
                            and CPU time/memory consumption is significantly reduced while you keep the
                            UPnP service running even in the background on an Android handset.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            To configure which services are supported by your control point application,
                            override the service implementation as shown in the previous section and provide
                            an array of <code>ServiceType</code> instances:
                        </p>

                        <div><pre class="prettyprint"><![CDATA[public class MyUpnpService extends AndroidUpnpServiceImpl {

    @Override
    protected AndroidUpnpServiceConfiguration createConfiguration(WifiManager wifiManager) {
        return new AndroidUpnpServiceConfiguration(wifiManager) {

            @Override
            public ServiceType[] getExclusiveServiceTypes() {
                return new ServiceType[] {
                        new UDAServiceType("SwitchPower")
                };
            }

        };
    }
}]]></pre></div>

                        <p>
                            This configuration will ignore any advertisement from any device that doesn't also
                            advertise a <em>schemas-upnp-org:SwitchPower:1</em> service. This is what our
                            control point can handle, so we don't need anything else. If instead you'd return
                            an empty array (the default behavior), all services and devices will be
                            discovered and no advertisements will be dropped.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            If you are not writing a control point but a server application, you can return
                            <code>null</code> in the <code>getExclusiveServiceTypes()</code> method. This
                            will disable discovery completely, now all device and service advertisements are
                            dropped as soon as they are received.
                        </p>

                        <p>
                            Another problem with UPnP discovery are bad quality Android devices (HTC) which
                            might not support multicast networking. If you see a discovered remote device
                            disappear from the Cling registry after a short time (a few minutes), but the
                            device is cleary still connected to the network, you most likely have this issue.
                            Your control point does not receive the periodic multicast heartbeat alive messages
                            from remote devices. You have to disable remote device expiration in the Cling
                            configuration and manually remove remote devices from the registry whenever you
                            think they are expired. Read the Javadoc of the method
                            <code>UpnpServiceConfiguration#getRemoteDeviceMaxAgeSeconds()</code> and override
                            it accordingly as shown in the previous example.
                        </p>

                    </div>
                </div>

            </div>
        </div>

    </div>
</div>
