<div class="chapter" id="chapter.Installation"
     xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
     xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

    <div class="title">Introduction</div>
    <div class="content">

        <p>
            The Cling OSGi UPnP Device Service is an implementation of the OSGi UPnP Device Service
            specification version 1.1 as defined in the OSGi Service Platform Service
            Compendium (Release 4, Version 4.2 August 2009).
        </p>

        <p>
            <em>
            The UPnP Device Architecture specification provides the protocols for a peer-to-peer network.
            It specifies how to join a network and how devices can be controlled using XML messages sent
            over HTTP. The OSGi specifications address how code can be download and managed in a remote
            system. Both standards are therefore fully complimentary. Using an OSGi Service Platform
            to work with UPnP enabled devices is therefore a very successful combination. This specification
            specifies how OSGi bundles can be developed that interoperate
            with UPnPTM (Universal Plug and Play) devices and UPnP control points.
            (OSGi Device Service specification version 1.1)
            </em>
        </p>

        <p>
            TODO: Continue manual here...
        </p>

        <p>
            Important! I had to use this to get the HTTP port correct for the sample device
            presentation URL:
        </p>

        <pre>java -Dorg.apache.felix.http.jettyEnabled=true -Dorg.osgi.service.http.port=8080 -jar bin/felix.jar</pre>

        <!-- NOTE: Don't need to specify the include base path here again! -->
        <xi:include href="somesection.xhtml"/>

    </div>
</div>
