<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>In Production</title>
</head>

<body>

<div id="content-body">

    <h1>
        Projects and applications using Cling
    </h1>

    <p>
        If your project or product is using Cling and you'd like to add it to this page, send an
        introduction to our <a href="/projects/mailinglists.html">Mailinglists</a>.
    </p>

    <ul>
        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink"
                       href="https://market.android.com/details?id=com.bubblesoft.android.bubbleds">BubbleDS</a></strong>

            <p>
                A UPnP control point for Android and
                <a class="externalLink" href="http://linn.co.uk/digital_stream_players">LinnDS</a> streamer appliances.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink"
                       href="https://market.android.com/details?id=com.bubblesoft.android.bubbleupnp">BubbleUPnP</a></strong>

            <p>
                A generic UPnP/DLNA media control point and renderer for Android.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://github.com/jinzora/">Jinzora UPnP</a></strong>

            <p>
                The Jinzora music management and streaming server can be accessed through a UPnP MediaServer
                gateway written with Cling. The Android client also uses Cling to access the MediaServer.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://market.android.com/details?id=com.adree.moviebrowser.upnp">MovieBrowser
                UPnP</a></strong>

            <p>
                MovieBrowser is a movie manager to use with your favorite player on your Android tablet. Manage your
                videos anywhere on your network (Samba &amp; UPnP/DLNA) and watch them with your favorite player or
                using the unique Play-To feature (Android airplay).
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://market.android.com/details?id=com.abk.privatedancer">Private
                Dancer</a></strong>

            <p>
                Private Dancer is a UPnP/DLNA Media Renderer for Android. It is designed to be used on a device attached
                to speakers and power. Unlike other UPnP Android applications, Private Dancer is designed for always-on
                (headless) use.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink"
                       href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.dbapp.android.mediahouse">MediaHouse</a></strong>

            <p>
                Stream music, videos, movies and pictures from PC, NAS or any other device running UPnP/DLNA compliant
                media server to your Android phone/handset/tablet.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=be.wyseur.photo">Digital
                Photo Frame Slideshow</a></strong>

            <p>
                Turn your Android device in a digital photo viewer showing a slideshow of local files, photos from
                network shares (Samba/SMB) or pictures from a UPnP server.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="http://www.i-frame.net">I-Frame Home</a></strong>

            <p>
                Full HD digital photo frame, picture-like design, displays files located in internal memory, LAN or
                Internet.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink"
                       href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.simatex.free.mediaconnect">MediaConnect</a></strong>

            <p>
                MediaConnect enables you to connect mediaservers with mediaplayers and also remote control these
                mediaplayers within a WLAN.
            </p>
        </li>

        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink"
                       href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.mip.shufflebox.android">ShuffleBox</a></strong>

            <p>
                Use your smartphone or tablet as a remote control and play music on your laptop, mobile phone or any
                other DNLA device.
            </p>
        </li>

    </ul>

    <h2>Free Projects</h2>

    <ul>
        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://github.com/trishika/DroidUPnP">DroidUPnP</a></strong>

            <p>
                DroidUPnP is an UPnP control point application for Android. DroidUPnP discover your home UPnP device,
                content provider and renderer. It allows you to browse your UPnP content directory, select the media you
                want to use and allows you to play it on your connected television or any UPnP renderer compatible
                device. It also allows you to use your Android device as a UPnP content provider.
            </p>
        </li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Noteworthy Forks</h2>

    <ul>
        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="http://www.openhab.org/jupnp/">jUPnP</a></strong>

            <p>
                Forked from pre-2.0, this code base still contains the OSGi feature, which has been removed in Cling
                2.0.
            </p>
        </li>
        <li>
            <strong><a class="externalLink" href="https://github.com/COLTRAM/cling">DIAL Support</a></strong>

            <p>
                Based on alpha 2.0 code, this UPnP/DLNA library for Java and Android contains modifications to discover
                DIAL devices.
            </p>
        </li>

    </ul>

</div>

</body>
</html>


